So, that's how we can use
environment variables.
And this is an important feature
because environment variables are needed
in a lot of Workflows to inject values,
as we're doing it here.
But we also have values, like these credentials here.
Like, the username and the password,
which we don't necessarily,
wanna store in our Workflow file.
Because you must keep in mind,
that we pushed this to GitHub,
so therefore, these credentials are on GitHub.
Everybody with access to this Repository,
can view these credentials here.
Sure, that's just a testing database here,
but we could have some production credentials here, as well.
And even for the testing database,
we typically, don't wanna expose such values.
And that's where secrets come into play.
Some environment variables,
like these credentials I showed you,
should never be exposed.
They shouldn't be part of your code,
or your definition files.
That's why GitHub Actions and basically, all providers
that provide services like this,
allow you to store so-called secrets.
These are essentially, also environment variables,
but stored, such that no one can access them,
no one can see them.
And when using GitHub, there are a couple of places
where such secrets can be stored.
If you would have an organization account,
you can store them on organization level
by going to your settings.
But I don't have that account here.
So therefore here,
I can't store my secrets on organization level.
But you can store them on Repository level,
by going to the settings of your Repository.
There, under security, you have that secrets area.
And there, you can store action specific secrets.
So, values that will be available in all actions,
in all Workflows,
that are executed for this Repository.
You add such a secret,
by simply adding a new Repository secret
And then you give it any name of your choice.
Though, it makes sense to pick a name similar
to the environment variable name here,
but it doesn't have to be the same one.
Here, I will use the same one though,
my MongoDB username,
and also store the username value here.
So, the value goes into the secret box.
And then after adding this,
this can't be viewed anymore.
You can update it, but you can't view it anymore,
and nobody can view it.
Especially, not people that might be visiting
your Repository.
Now, I will also add a second secret,
and that's my MongoDB password.
And here, of course, I also copy that value,
and provided, like this.
And now, these two credential values are stored as secrets.
Now, we must update our Workflow file
to remove the values from there,
and reference those secrets, instead.
And that can be done
by using GitHub Actions expression syntax,
with the dollar sign and the double curly braces.
And then there's a special secrets context object.
So just, as we have the end context object
for accessing environment variables.
We have the secrets context object
for accessing secrets that are provided for this Repository.
And since, I just added two secrets to this Repository.
These two secrets here.
I can access these two secrets and their values
via the secrets context object.
So here, I can access secrets.MONGODB_PASSWORD
or to be precise, that should be down here.
And here, it's secrets.MONGODB_USERNAME.
So, that's here, for this first environment variable.
And with that, when this Workflow runs
the actual values stored as secrets will be injected,
but nobody will see that.
The actual values will never be exposed anymore.
Actually, when you try to print such a value,
as I'm doing it here with the username,
you will later see that GitHub Actions recognizes this,
and will actually hide this value
so that you can't accidentally, print it and expose it,
in your Workflow logs.
So, GitHub Actions really takes care
that your secrets stay secrets.
So therefore, with these changes made,
with those secrets added,
and the Workflow definition file updated,
I will create a new commit, switched to secrets,
and I'll push that updated code,
and therefore, now of course,
will trigger another Workflow run.
And that Workflow run should also succeed,
but this time,
it will be using secrets under the hood.
So, let's wait for that to finish here.
Here we go.
And now, if we take a look,
we see that both workflows finished successfully,
and in the first Workflow,
in the first Job, sorry,
both Jobs finished successfully.
In the first Job, under output information,
you can see that there
GitHub Actions actually hit that value,
that username value,
because it saw that this is actually a secret,
and therefore, it's hiding it,
when you're trying to expose it.
So, these secrets, really are secrets.